contacts growing up we think a lot about
learning through listening the really
weird thing about making podcasts and
making YouTube videos especially if
you're working alone you're not doing an
interview you're not doing the
roundtable format is that you do a lot
of learning through talking
I do not script my videos sometimes I
get email from people who assume these
videos are script it's like no it's a
hundred percent off the top of my head
spontaneous but you do a little bit of
thinking before you come on camera where
you think okay what themes am I gonna
address how am I gonna combine them how
am I gonna get this whole discussion
done under one hour under half an hour
under 15 minutes you go through a very
strange process of learning through
talking in making YouTube videos in
making podcasts and even though I have
done well over 400 YouTube videos at
this point I think we crossed the 500
line a few days ago guys 500 uploads at
any rate making the videos on a Song of
Ice and Fire Game of Thrones it's
remarkable to me how different the
process is for me mentally creatively or
have you putting together a video like
this in contrast to the videos I've done
about real world politics ethics history
and of course animal rights veganism
ecology the other themes are gonna see
discussed on this channel I have other
videos about learning languages I have
other videos just talking about my own
life etc etc but it really is
interesting so in this video I'm
covering a couple of different topics
but one big theme the theme I really
want to talk about this video is the
contrast between psychological realism
and political realism and basically my
thesis here is from my perspective my
opinion is that the the enduring quality
of the Song of Ice and Fire book series
is that it presents you with a world
that has this kind of profound political
realism has enough social complexity as
enough social contradictions that it
pulls you along as a reader it certainly
pulls me along despite very often a lack
of psychological realism and I don't
really mean that as a criticism I think
if the books had more psychological
realism they might be boring um is
Ramsay Bolton psychologically realistic
no it's just left up to your imagination
at a several times thing has happened at
conferences at press conferences or book
promotion events george RR martin will
comment that none of the characters in
the book are truly good or truly evil
and then some will say well wait a
minute what about Ramsay Bolton and
George Aaron will kind of vaguely say
well you know he had a bad childhood and
the audience will laugh so I think
that's happened at least twice you can
you can find that on YouTube at least
one of the times when he's made a joke
of that kind
you know dismissing the idea that even
Ramsay Bolton is a simple evil character
in his nuanced world of characters that
are neither good nor evil now would
these books be better if instead of
presenting Ramsay Bolton to us in this
stark simple way with great economy of
language if instead we delved into his
childhood psychology his relationship
with his mother um a lot of American
fiction whether in cinema or in scripts
or in book form is really loaded with
its laden it's heavy with that kind of
attention to psychological realism and
for me from my perspective I like the
fact that Game of Thrones Song of Ice
Bear is not that the books are not
burdened with that kind of psychological
realism now okay
I realize some people are gonna still
regard this as a criticism for me it's
part of the economy of language and I
think it leans on the political realism
and the readers propensity to fill in
the gaps with plausible explanations for
why the characters are doing what
they're doing that we fill in the gaps
with plausible motivations when we often
know nothing about the Cure so another
example really rapidly really quickly um
[Music]
Kevan Lannister we get one chapter that
gives us a little bit of psychological
realism - Kevan Lannister not a lot a
little bit of his psychology has shown
to us but up until that one chapter in
which he dies by the way hashtag
spoilers uh um we have no idea who this
guy is and we don't need to know I don't
think a single person read these books
and before that final appearance get
thought you know what I just I just
don't understand Kevan Lee I just don't
understand his his political motivations
I don't understand this is psychology
who is
this guy who is this mysterious Kevin
Landsman we don't need to know we don't
need to know because Kevin Lannister is
presented to us as coping with these
complex scenarios in such a politically
realistic world and for me there's
there's a very moving scene many of you
may not think of this as emotionally
moving this reflects my own background
in caring about politics war history etc
you know Kevan Lannister sits down with
Cersei at one point I forget on Slate
they're sitting or standing it's
immaterial and Cersei she isn't even
really threatening him it's just a
situation of a rather vague unstated
conflict between Kevan Lannister and
Cersei Lannister but there is the real
possibility of the conflict when Cersei
Lannister and Kevan Lannister descending
into a Lannister civil war and you can
imagine how different the whole story
would be how different the whole you
know history fictional history and foot
would be if they had taken in that
direction and Kevan Lannister says to
her this is from memory but does every
call he says you know I have a good
fortress I have a good castle and I feed
200 Knights he says we can't win if it's
this Civil War
if Cersei really comes for him he can't
win said but we can really make you
fight for it you know we we it won't be
easy for you you know there's gonna be a
significant body count this is gonna be
a war that's gonna go on for a long time
if you really want to take it there with
me to me that scene has so much gravitas
so much reality and as I recall Cersei
is quite surprised she didn't think
these negotiations we're gonna we're
gonna go that far she didn't think she
was gonna be in that life-and-death
faceoff with with with Kevan Lannister
but that is what they're what they're
discussing at that at that stage of the
plot is their psychological realism to
it no do I neither to be know for me as
a reader I'm already completely pulled
in and in a sense committed to following
the story because of the political
realism of the overall context now sorry
so this video although it's gonna talk
about a few different things some of you
reading the title the video you may
already want to know why I'm bringing in
some commentary on the boiled leather
audio our podcast one of my other
podcasters who talks about Song of Ice
and Fire Game of Thrones
[Music]
I mean I think the other big thing I
want to talk about here is revenge and
the significance of revenge in these
books as a whole now look as a kind of
strange disclaimer I'm not talking about
subtext here I'm not talking about a
topic of speculation the idea that
revenge is an important moral ethical
theme in these books is written very
clearly it's put into the mouths of
characters it's expressed in the text
not in the subtext not a matter of
interpretation I think it's significant
it's self-evidently significant that we
have the enormous importance of revenge
you know on the southern tip of this
fictional world down in Dorne we have
these characters in Dorne who are almost
cartoonishly obsessed with revenge to
the point of their own self-destruction
and we have this very memorable
monologue or dialogue reflecting on how
hopeless revenge is and especially
drawing attention to the fact that
revenge has no clear endpoint or outcome
when is it enough
when is the cycle of revenge done how
destructive and self-destructive this
this yearning for revenge's so that's in
the text not in the subtext that's in
the southern end of the world in Dorne
and then almost mirroring that at the
northern end of the world we have
Barbary Dustin Barbary Dustin another
character who again her obsession with
revenge I'm is you know irrational this
hidden least Barbary Dustin why does she
hate the stark family it's a very
romantic tale in two sentences she loved
her husband her husband went off to war
on a red horse her husband promised her
that he would come back alive from war
on that red horse but ladies and
gentlemen that is not the kind of
promise you can expect a man to keep war
as hell nobody knows who's gonna live it
who's gonna die and her husband died
it's not Ned Stark's fault but Ned Stark
brought back that horse to her without
her husband she was bitter as hell she
could never forgive him she deeply hated
Ned Stark not only did she does did she
vow to destroy the stark household which
she has done she's already accomplished
that that revenge is in the
tense you know but after Ned Stark is
dead it's still not enough for her
she's got to destroy his bones she's got
to prevent him from having a proper
burial
and she's got a network of spies to help
her carry this out this is ridiculous
what do you think about it I mean we
already know Littlefinger as a network
of spies we know vari Zazzle networker
spies now what now Barbary Dustin has
her own private CIA and none of these
spies managed to find Arya Stark right
none of them but her but her spies are
on it her spies are gonna track down the
bones of Ned Stark
and why for revenge now obviously for me
this is one theme I'm discussing this
video it may seem do I've mentioned
three or four different unrelated things
is this psychological realism is this
lacking psychological realism I really
think in many ways Jorge's approach to
Jeremy Martin's approach to writing
these characters reflects his own prior
success as a horror writer as an author
in the horror genre and really the
American genre of horror in that genre
the single most overweening influence
being at ground PO we have a lot of
characters that fit into that tradition
of Edgar Allen Poe's over-the-top
villain seeking revenge often for no
rational reason or no stated reason
whatsoever
and uh seeking revenge in a way if you
think about your own life your own
real-life experience I doubt any of you
have met a character out of an Edgar
Allen Poe's story it's it's evocative
it's dramatic but it is not realistic
again I'm not complaining um but in the
real world your experience with revenge
is much more likely to be to people at
your office who hate each other bitterly
and they wait all year until one day at
the Christmas party they've both had too
much alcohol and they yell at each other
about how much they dislike each other
in this age of consent this is the the
reality of revenge in our lives it's
petty and it may be cruel but it's um
the the type of yearning for revenge
that leads Dora and Mort Martell to in
effect kill his own son I mean he
doesn't quite kill he sends off his son
and this impossible mission resulting in
his son's death
ridiculous and many people including
Preston JP Jacobs are trying to
reinterpret this in some other way what
it is showing us not in the subtext in
the text is how this yearning for
revenge dooms their whole house that's
that that is the story of house Martell
it is it's not portraying revenge in a
morally neutral way this is a if
anything and A Song of Ice and Fire can
behold a feeble this is a feeble about
how revenge is bad and evil and wrong
and Georgia's in this context laying it
on thick Barbary Dustin I think is more
nuanced etc etc but George as I said
even with some bulik Ramsay Bolton
Ramsay snow Ramsay Bolton George is not
really interested in giving us this kind
of icing on the cake of psychological
realism the American tradition I prefer
it that way I don't need to know I do
not need a rational explanation or a
psychoanalytic glimpse into the mind of
Ramsay Bolton white as because I don't
eat it for Barbary Dustin either you
know we were kind of given enough of a
dotted line and then the rest is we get
to see these people coping with
realistic hurdles realistic political
conditions in a world that has this this
compelling political realism to it so
even if some of the characters are to be
blunt a bit like cartoonish
supervillains in their pursuit of
revenge for me that does not impair the
story and I would say that I'm not
planning to write a novel in the near
future it is possible I will in the next
three years I'm living in some stranger
I can imagine writing a novel in the
next couple of years given the
circumstance they'll be living and
working in if I were to write a novel
for me I would take that as a very kind
of positive lesson from George's success
I don't think he came to this in a in a
you know carefully thought-out way I
think that George's success as a writer
of horror because he is he's an
award-winning horror author and prior to
the enormous success of Game of Thrones
you have to remember his writing before
with some of his most successful writing
financially and otherwise he and some of
his books combine elements of horror and
science fiction there is a story called
sand kings it's not his most famous work
sand Kings was both successful as text
and it was adapted into
basically a TV movie I think it was a
two-hour TV special if it's a one-hour
TV special I apologize but mice and
kings most of you probably never had
sang Kings no offense
sand Kings again is a story we're
definitely I mean almost every okay the
main character at least very much that
Edgar Allen Poe tradition of just being
an inexplicably malevolent vengeful
character from page one and we get no
examination we don't know anything about
his childhood we don't know why he's
like this we don't know what his
objectives are in life we don't know why
he is so cavalier about killing people
and getting revenge and that's there
from the the Alpha to the Omega from the
start of the story to the end he's just
that kind of guy so that I just say this
is an element of Georgie's writing that
for him from his perspective I think has
been rewarded I think his horror writing
is something that met with a pretty
large audience very positive public
reception and I think that has
influenced him as a writer to have more
and more of those characters and more
more of that pattern now the other thing
I think is very interesting looking at a
Song of Ice and Fire as a whole looking
at all the books together as an epic and
at this point we have maybe fifty
percent of the books published if you
think we're 75 percent of the way
through the story maybe it seems like
we're at about the halfway mark as the
year 2016 comes from and this is the
last couple of days of 2016 I'm
recording this Emma the way it seems to
me the story's about halfway done I
think George is tremendously interested
in revenge as such and he has an
explicitly ethical and political view of
revenge that in some cases is harshly
damning a revenge of revenge as a
concept if you like but he also
challenges himself let's say what I mean
in a second it is impossible so we've
alluded to earlier George does not like
to categorize his characters in terms of
good versus evil but you can very easily
categorize the characters in terms of
motivated by revenge versus not
motivated by revenge which becomes very
interesting very soon
so obviously Jon Snow so far not motive
not motive not motivated by revenge
nothing Jon Snow is done up to this
halfway point up to is a
Aaron death of two being stabbed is
motivated by revenge we don't know when
John comes back from the dead maybe
that's a fundamental change maybe he
wants revenge against the Nights Watch
we don't know right
but John up to this point he can say has
been a morally good character at least
by this one criterion in that he is not
motivated by revenge now Jamie Lannister
again a morally gray character most
people see them as being on a Redemption
arc in reality we don't know we don't
know what Jamie's gonna do next
um at the beginning of the books I'd
remind you there's this tremendously
odious atmosphere surrounding Jamie
Lannister and all of the Knights who are
in the immediate company of the king who
at that time is you know Robert
Baratheon
um you have this sense of them being
violent men who have no purpose in life
who have nothing to do in this world in
between wars right Jamie Lannister and
the Hound and the other members of the
the Kingsguard the Kings coterie they
just seem like a malevolent bunch of
board members of a biker gang who are
itching for any excuse to fight any
excuse to kill someone including the
killing of Micah the butcher's boy right
which is done by the hound as you'll
recall but before any that happens from
the first time these guys walk onstage
there's a tremendous sense of menace
dare we say evil about them right but
nevertheless Jamie Lannister as we first
know his character at the beginning of
his history-- arc Jamie Lannister is not
motivated by revenge
why did Jamie Lannister kill the Mad
King for the good of the realm
why did Jamie Lannister destroy these
other houses fighting on the side of you
know House Lannister fighting on the
side of house per at the end of some
extent um for the go to the realm Jamie
Lannister is not out for revenge at any
point in the story and when you look at
that okay hmm
that puts them in a totally different
category from Barbary Dustin from the
whole of house Martell which is you know
all these ridiculous characters and
house Martell I mean I'm sorry look if
anyone here is offended that I'm saying
house look Martell lacks psychological
realism did you the first time you read
about the sand snakes I mean I've heard
comments on the Internet
the sand snakes are like an all-female
team equivalent to the Teenage Mutant
Ninja Turtles okay no there's no there
is no psychological realism to the sand
snakes don't get it yourself and there's
no psychological realism to the role
revenge that's in their life so again
like these Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles
each one has a different superpower a
different weapon or whatever it's the
Justice League or the x-men I guess the
x-men is maybe a good comparison each
one has a different superpower this
one's a religious figure this one this
one's a warrior this is junk writing I'm
sorry and all of them are are obsessed
with this revenge for events that
happened before they were born events
that were not in a meaningful sense part
of their lives etc etc that's how we're
introduced to them zero interest in
examining their psychology their
motivation motivations they enter stage
left as villains chewing up the scenery
and of course another example like that
from from the south is dark store the
infamous Dark Star the most hated care
many people feel that's the worst
written character or worst written
couple of scenes in the whole series of
Kingdom throne okay george RR martin is
not perfect sometimes i think we could
say the lack of psychological realism is
a problem but for me as a reader because
i really respond to the political
overtones and political undertow of this
story it's not much of a problem maybe
for someone else it would be made for
someone i was looking more for that
american tradition of you know frankly
digging into everybody's you know
Freudian past Freudian psychoanalytic
history maybe they would be more
frustrated with this book series because
it never gives you that right never even
gives you that for Jon Snow I'm with
John Snow even you're just left filling
in the blanks for why this guy is the
way he is and you know I think would be
a lot less interesting if we did to get
all that stuff um who is motivated by
revenge and who is not I think so again
you could go through a list of all the
principal characters or even all the
minor characters and look at who is
motivated by revenge who is not and you
get a much more useful set of categories
than good versus evil another very
interesting one no
is Tyrion Lannister for the first half
of his story
roughly first quarter of his story
Tyrion Lannister again is not motivated
by revenge
even though Tyrion Lannister is an
amoral character at best or an antihero
why is he fighting against Stannis for
the good of the realm why is he fighting
on behalf of House Lannister for the
good of the realm Tyrion is not
motivated by revenge in any sense
so I think it's interesting to say that
up to a certain point in his story in
that by that criteria and he is morally
good despite the many evil and odious
things he does and then we have a change
for one thing he actually does take
revenge on his own father he both wants
revenge and he seeks revenge and gets
revenge immediately and that's not
enough for him it's a bit cartoonish but
after he leaves King's Landing he wants
revenge on his own sister he won't be
satisfied we were told this again and
again it's easy to ignore
he has a monomania with murdering his
own sister he is out for revenge okay
make no mistake in the book Tyrion
Lannister is not trying to liberate the
slaves of murine he couldn't care less
Tyrion Lannister is not trying to save
the realm from Stannis Baratheon because
he believes Stannis Baratheon is a bad
or evil king other characters are um you
know his own brother Renly it's very
interesting Renly sets down that his
reason is that he thinks Stannis will be
a terrible King Voorhies is really
afraid if Stannis becomes King and will
devastate the realm and we don't have
any reason to think that was a cynical
ploy overall it seems that virus was
speaking sincerely when vari said that
from his perspective Stannis must be
stopped Stannis is in effect a threat or
a menace or would be an evil and
terrible king that's not Terrans
motivation after Tyrion leaves King's
Landing he is out for blood
he is out for revenge and he has become
another one of these you know again it
broadly speaking the tradition of Edgar
Allan Poe very psychologically simple
bent on revenge destructive and
self-destructive characters now I think
when you see it that way that also
foreshadows maybe to some extent
uh what is coming next for Tyrion yeah I
think there's actually a lot for us to
consider there okay now okay so two
challenges now I think it is very easy
to say in a sense that Littlefinger is
an evil character if you look at the
storyline of the fake Arya as we call
her the woman who replaces arya stark at
Winterfell and it's very unclear what's
gonna happen her storyline it's one I
don't want to try to predict what
happens next but you know if you look at
what Littlefinger did to fake Arya just
use that name
unbelievably needlessly cruel and evil
takes this girl and reduces her to being
a prostitute and that's before even
she's married off to Ramsay Bolton and
so on um you know Littlefinger knows
what he's doing and this is seemingly an
evil act with no particular plan or
purpose to it and we're reminded of that
I think it's in the sample chapters but
at the very end of the plot after Theon
and fake Arya escape
Theon warns her he says to faker you
must maintain this illusion you must
keep on using this fake identity because
if not your true identity is equivalent
to a horror you'll go back to just being
a prostitute if you admit that you're
not Arya Stark now we have no idea what
can happen that plot apparently that
character is gonna lose her nose that's
two different characters major or
significant characters or their noses
cut off apparently due to frost but
she's gonna lose her nose I think it's
quite possible that actually the real
Arya Stark will not want to resume her
identity as Arya Stark and will allow
that that woman to continue to be our
it's quite possible in the plot will
have a noseless fake Arya ruler of the
north which is a type of nuance and
subtle to you you do not see in the TV
show but we have no idea what's gonna
happen with that with that story line
but Petyr baelish's role in that
Littlefinger's role in that it is very
easy to call that evil
however Littlefinger is not motivated by
revenge or so far in the books this is
December of 2016 so far not that we know
of now maybe I'm wrong maybe really the
final judgment on
Baelish in these books will be that he
was motivated Marge maybe what we'll
find out is that from day one he just
wanted to kill Ned Stark because he
could never be satisfied until he took
revenge against the family and the
feudal system that deprived him of the
opportunity to get married to the only
woman he ever loved Catelyn Stark maybe
Littlefinger's story really is a revenge
story maybe that's what gets revealed
you know in the next two books through
however many books we've got maybe but
right now it's also possible to look at
all the evil and terrible things Petyr
baelish's done and say hey he was doing
this for the good of the realm yes he
was also doing it for his own career for
his own advancement to get rich yes that
too but you know Ned Stark showed up at
you know in the first books Ned Ned
Stark shows up in the capital city and
Petyr Baelish is there to help he didn't
need to be he could have been there
trying to get revenge from they want
maybe what's revealed that he always was
please don't bother to send me hate me
on that maybe we don't know so I think
even using this set of criteria for not
good versus evil but characters who are
motivated by revenge versus not
motivated by revenge it's interesting
that some at least at this time are in a
gray area but anyway obviously house
Martell is an extreme their adventures
what this story's all about and then
mirroring that in the far north Barbary
Dustin is just about revenge I think
there is a sense in which you can say
Theon Greyjoy is illustrating you know
the opposite side of the coin or
something what what does revenge even
mean doesn't it become meaningless in
Theon Greyjoy story what does justice
mean is it justice for Stannis to
execute Theon Greyjoy and so on you know
we we don't know obviously Jaime
Lannister is also showing that flip side
of the coin would it be justice for
Jaime Lannister to be killed because he
killed the the Mad King or for these of
the things we have the totally surreal
situation of you know the Hound being
put on trial for killing Micah the
butcher's boy which is I think most
people overlook just how significant
that is to the ethics and morality of
this this saga as a whole he's put on
trial and he says
his only flaw at following orders he was
the use standard operating procedure
that was his job as a soldier for the
King don't blame him blame the king and
he wins at his trial they have a totally
surreal supernatural trial and he's
found he's found not guilty right so I I
do think these are kind of deep and you
know the the theme of revenge it isn't
just deep it's on the surface of the
text also again you don't to get into
subjects no to get into interpretation
but it's there in almost every part of
the story now the the final point I want
to make on this issue and again for me
I'm reflecting on this dynamic contrast
between psychological realism and
political realism I think that what's
coming up in the storyline in Mereen
really relates to this also now look
guys let's pause talk about real
politics in real history for a minute
here some of you may have never read
real historical accounts of slave
rebellions of slave revolts they are
incredibly gruesome chapters in the
history of of our world I do not know
what George has read but I assume he has
read several real historical examples of
slave rebellions slave revolts slave
revolutions and that this shapes his
writing of what what's happened in
Mereen daenerys targaryen
story line one of the most extreme the
most gruesome the most dramatic is the
the revolution and counter-revolution in
Haiti so Haiti today is an independent
country
they fought very hard for that
independence and they fought hard
against France and even though France
had a revolution of its own a revolution
that cynically used the concepts of
freedom and ending slavery what have you
the reality is that the French under
Napoleon tried to force Haiti back into
slavery to simplify so they tried to
force Haiti back into being their their
colony now slavery in Haiti itself was
especially cruel especially inhumane and
the contrasts were the other islands
right next door so at that time before
the Revolution everyone in Haiti knew by
the way it wasn't called Haiti at that
time Haiti is a later name but anyway
we're using the name Haiti to evoke
confusion everyone in Haiti knew that
slaves were treated better in Cuba if
there were these contrasts between these
different slave owning colonies they
were all slave societies but slaves
would actually run away from one slave
society to be a slave in another society
just because the conditions of slavery
were better in one place versus another
right so even even when the Caribbean
was basically completely filled up with
different slave societies the
differences in the treatment of states
that the differences in the human rights
of slaves if you like the relative
degree of oppression accrue it was
something that everyone in the business
was aware of right so they knew okay in
this country this is how a slave on a
sugar plantation is treated in this
country this is how a slave who works in
a tailor shop is treated it was a very
complex scheme of the different levels
of slaves within one society in Haiti
tremendously complex by the way which is
partly to encourage the slaves to
oppress one another and to get the
slaves to buy into the system so to
speak so that every slave could feel
they were in a better situation than
some other slave who had it even worse
than them
you know but also there was this
contrast between the different slave
owning countries so Haiti was an
especially terrible slave Society in a
period of history when slave societies
were common and everybody knew it it was
not a secret
right and their rebellion was an
especially violent and extreme rebellion
when it came so somewhat sarcastically
and somewhat seriously when the slaves
rose up and had their revolution hitting
by the way actually there were several
Haitian revolutions but we're
simplifying um in what's referred to as
the Haitian Revolution you know you will
see books and even illustrations showing
so-called the banner of the Revolution
when the slaves rose up they didn't just
kill the slave masters they didn't just
rape and kill the slave masters wife
they would murder the babies the
children of the slave master and it was
reportedly from all the history I have
read he was a common sight to see the
armies of the rebel slaves and slave
rebel armies marching from one town to
the next with a spear and an impaled
dead baby on the end of that spear so a
white baby the slave masters baby that
had killed would be skewered on
spear and held up to show negotiations
are over right it was a life and death
struggle and so that this is not a
one-sided picture of the barbarity
involved you may or may not know the
first use of gas chambers in the history
of the world was done by Napoleon by
Napoleon side in trying to turn back the
clock and trying in the counter
Revolutionary War in the holds of ships
these were giant wooden ships that would
have a big you know empty wooden space
in the bottom to hold the ships they
would put hundreds of people into the
hold of the ship and use the crude
poison gases that existed at the time
that would kill you pretty gradually and
they executed thousands and thousands of
people this way in gas chambers so in
the history of the world the first use
of gas chambers in crimes against
humanity you could call this genocide
but anyway that's mass murder was by the
French side in fighting against this
revolution this this revolution in civil
war this attempt to get freedom from
slavery for the people of Haiti right so
the history is extremely brutal and
again so if you have any sensitivity to
that if you have any connection that and
that is not the only history of slavery
I'm familiar with I've read the history
of slavery and of rebellions against
slavery in several different countries
many Americans seem to think that the
American Civil War is the only or as the
standard history of house labor gets
abolished on this planet it's not that's
a very unusual situation I mean
fundamentally the majority of people
fighting in the Civil War were white so
this was one group of white people that
obviously some black people in there but
this is one army of white people
fighting another army of white people to
debate whether or not they're going to
own slaves that is in no way comparable
to a situation where in extreme poverty
and oppression the slaves themselves
rise up to take on the money to
establishment take on the slave owners
directly a slave revolution is very very
different from what Americans saw their
historic experience in the u.s. civil
war right so my point is the level of
brutality seen in daenerys targaryen
struggle with the slave owners he does
have political realism whether or not
there's psychological realism is another
question
but what Daenerys does is that she comes
into power on the promise of abolishing
slavery her only legitimacy as a foreign
conqueror as an as an Army of Occupation
taking over the city marry her only
legitimacy comes from her claim that she
is going to carry out this type of
revolution
it's a slave revolution and again I do
think George has some background in
studying some of these real-world slaver
pollutions so in a sense he knows what
that means it means yeah if you want to
use the comparison to French history it
means the guillotine
it means the society actually
eliminating the ruling class actually
slaughtering the slave owners and we
have that issue or that option presented
to Daenerys again and again and I think
it's very clear up to the point we're at
now in the books Daenerys is refusing to
have a regime built on revenge
she is not wanting to rule a city that's
built on the logic of the slaves rising
up and taking revenge against their
former slave masters for her own ethical
and political reasons she refuses this
she refuses this many people give her
blunt advice on this and just say I
think you understand what's going on you
need to go back and reread what
Barristan Selmy says very very carefully
I think fundamentally Barristan Selmy is
telling us the truth at many points in
the story he's not playing games he's
not telling Daenerys what she needs to
hear and there she's often ignoring what
he says and then we get to see Barristan
Selmy ease investigation it's a little
bit like a detective story where
Barristan Selmy figures out who is
conspiring against two etcetera I think
what we can understand especially if we
put enough weight on Barristan Selmy
zs-- exposition Daenerys has left this
revolution incomplete and undone or
unfit only half done she started the
revolution and she didn't finish it
halfway through this type of slave
rebellion she changed her policy
entirely she sold out all her principles
she sold out the interest of the slaves
and not only she tried to negotiate with
and compromise with the slave owning
elite she actually tried to marry into
their class she started where
their clothes she arranged a marriage to
one of their you know aristocrats now
from the slaves perspective this is a
betrayal of their interests beyond
imagining
right but this is also simply abandoning
you know the only reason d'etre for her
for her regime now the point were
arrested at and sir the cliffhanger
right in the story is seemingly of
Daenerys try having to embrace the ethic
of fire and blood okay this is a little
bit vague I think it's much less vague
when you you say you look at this in
terms of the the meditation on revenge
seem throughout all the books I think we
could say that the the fable of marine
is in many ways saying even if your
leader is this somewhat zhijun somewhat
naive teenage girl which is what
Daenerys is she's not out for revenge
she wants to be reasonable she wants to
negotiate she wants to compromise she's
even willing to get married to someone
she doesn't love she's worried it will
get married into a culture she doesn't
respect and become a member of a social
clashes when we part of she is willing
to meet them halfway for all these you
know good and noble reasons peace and
prosperity and cooperation and
compromise but the setting she lives in
is one of political realism it's one in
which the people want revenge and her
only legitimacy comes from satisfying
the desire for revenge from those slave
classes it the legitimacy of her rule
cannot come from a noble marriage to
hizdahr zo loraq sorry if i get the name
wrong his daughter his daughter I'm sure
about you know it cannot possibly come
from her courting the support of the
green grace of marine of the local
religious authorities it cannot all
right it's only coming from the ground
up it's coming from that same place she
was at when she was walking on the road
to marine and she was seeing the corpses
of these children these child slaves
that had been tortured to death that had
been executed just to intimidate her and
she wanted revenge
so at widest George
set this up I think in a sense he's
challenging himself as a writer he's
challenging us as the readers of the
audience he's challenging the overall
morality that's unfolding in this book
the morality tale you know I mean the
point of the morality tale in you know
Dorne
is completely obvious to everyone
there's nothing subtle about it right
revenge is bad very clear marine by
contrast is showing you you can fight
against it you can obviate it you can
try to avoid it but this desire for
revenge is also part of political
reality and sometimes it's in electable
and someone like Daenerys Targaryen who
seems like the most powerful person in
the world is powerless when confronted
with these choices between either giving
the people what they want which is
revenge and tearing a whole society
apart just in order to stay in control
of it liquidating the ruling class as so
many societies have done it the
revolutions began Haiti is an extreme
example but a telling example really the
revolution in France is also a very
telling example and those two
revolutions ended up at war with each
other as the French wanted to reclaim
their their colony terrible irony in
history well you know Napoleon thinks of
himself as a revolutionary thinks of
himself as representing the ideals of
the revolution and of freedom and you
know all these fine ideals and he was
fighting to try to force Haiti back into
being a slave colony of France right
that's that's real history in case you
think in case you think a Song of Ice
and Fire is hard to believe it's pretty
unbelievable to that that that really
happened here on planet earth and so
this is this is what I have to say I
mean III think that again I'm not
criticizing him when I say that the the
strength of the story is in political
realism rather than psychological
realism I mean I do not find even
Daenerys Targaryen psychologically
realistic and that's fine with me I
don't care but that for me the political
realism can carry the story I think I
mean you know if you ask why is revenge
so important throughout this this whole
book
I don't you tell me book one chapter one
I think it's book one chapter one you
have the stag and the direwolf you know
the literal stag and direwolf that have
killed each other in the forest so the
two houses you know this most obvious
symbolism in the world why why of all
these houses torn themselves apart right
to a large extent a songs Basin fire is
a critique of feudalism I mean why does
Barbary dust rent dust and need revenge
to the extent that she does Barbary
Dustin's title it's the same by the way
with the the rains of castamere the
rains of castamere which is not in the
books yet maybe it never will be but
it's alluded to in the books and then we
know about it from the you know the
world book we know the story the tragedy
of the rains of castamere and the
tragedy of Barbra Dustin is ultimately
based in the fact this is social system
where your marriage defines land
ownership defines your wealth and your
status and your political power sure
there's a there's a huge you know at a
macro level they'll this whole the whole
story is a condemnation of feudalism
itself root and branch
it's a condemnation of people having
political power based on their birth and
land ownership based on birth and
marriage etc sure on a deep level that's
there all the time but I think it's also
showing us with absolutely no ambiguity
that the problem is you know the what
animates this whole tragic state of
affairs is no doubt the desire for
revenge that's that's always their
Barbary Dustin can never be satisfied
house Martell can never be satisfied and
in some way the whole feudal system I
think is illustrated again partly
because of these ultimately economic
moorings the economic basis the feudal
system it is prone to or it ineluctably
leads to this unending cycle of revenge
and again a house Blackwood I'm sorry I
may be reflecting we have these two
houses written Oh God so I'm going to
Raven tree and Blackwood Oh God I did
not press we do have these houses that
we
see through Jaime Lannister's eyes and
sir one of them their their house sigil
is this giant black weirwood tree trying
to destroy each other over centuries and
centuries in microcosm that's giving us
the same story that these books show us
in macrocosm their desire for revenge
between those two houses never ends I'm
sorry I'm forgetting if it's black tree
or black wood and they're at this Bazaar
there are these two hills that are
referred to as Barba's teet so you guys
will know what I'm talking about
if you've read the books you know I'm
talking about and Jaime Lannister learns
the whole story of these two houses who
have been at war with each other for
centuries and centuries why is it that
they can never have enough revenge it's
really shown - this is not subtext it's
explained to us in the text their desire
for revenge can never end because this
cycle of seeking revenge is linked to
who owns the land it's linked to the
struggle to control green fields and
greeneries and I don't know Potter the
pottery industry and the shipping
industry it can never end there can
never be peace that can never be into a
cycle revenge because of in a sense the
way the feudal system links to this ugly
aspect of human nature and to make the
books dramatic that aspen if you made
nature is made even uglier because so
many characters come straight out of
Edgar Allan Poe enough said in case you
hadn't noticed the vast majority of
videos on this YouTube channel are about
politics so I'm a guy who primarily
writes articles about politics records
podcasts about politics records videos
in YouTube ooh politics including the
politics of animal rights ecology
veganism but many other forms of
politics as well by contrast there is a
very famous very well-respected podcast
about a Song of Ice and Fire
called the boiled leather audio our on
that podcast they primarily mean the
main guy there is Shaun T Cullen's Shaun
T Collins you're gonna hear his voice
and then I'm gonna play you a clip Shaun
T Cullen's he mostly rights above
fiction he mostly writes articles about
TV shows and his podcasts are about
fiction are about TV
including of course Game of Thrones and
once in a while he talks about politics
so he and I are exact opposites I talk
about politics all the time I talk about
A Song of Ice and Fire once in a while
he talks about fiction all the time he
talks about Osama by spiral time he
talks about politics once in a while so
I'm in a unique position to maybe
comment on the the recent lapsing of
shanti collins into the political sphere
they've had quite a few podcasts as she
that talk about politics and apparently
shell-shocked in response to the
election of donald trump
shaunti collins went off-script and they
did a whole wall other audio did a whole
episode well the boiled leather audio
hour did a whole episode just talking
about how shocked and horrified they are
by the election Donald Trump I'm gonna
play you less than one minute of what
Shanti Khan says here and then you will
get my response I think it is
interesting that we have reached a
tipping point in the fandom if I can use
the word fan where I could do a podcast
just responding to other podcasts about
a Song of Ice and Fire
so the level of critical engagement with
this literature is now so high that I
it's not just possible to depart I could
do a metal podcast a podcast about
podcasts alright it's not what we're
gonna do but I think that isn't a sin
sling to be celebrated and it shows how
seriously these these books are taken um
in this case I do think it's regretable
that Shaun kind of went off the rails
and you're gonna see why essay and I've
stayed off of Twitter for the last week
and a half or so maybe even two weeks
now in large part with the exception of
occasionally plugging my work and my
partner juliek affairs work and I talked
about something that we'll get to later
in this podcast was just the role of
television and television dramas in
particular in the election efforts of
the Trump campaign but the reason I've
done that is is because of what I have
tattooed on my left arm and I'm not
going to try and butcher the German but
it's fit constraint and it says you know
we're of
one cannot speak thereof one must be
silent and no comment
particularly feel that I had anything of
value to contribute beyond my initial
reaction which was white nationalism is
inherently illegitimate the Trump
presidency
may be legal but it's illegitimate and
and there should be no cooperation
because there should be no cooperation
with fascism ever and it's a it's a neo
fascist movement and it's sizing up to
be a neo fascist regime so the whole
premise of this video you've just been
watching and of talking about the
politics of A Song of Ice and Fire
the premise here is that we're talking
about politics in the fictional world
and yet what I find so problematic so
troubling about what shanti collins is
doing here is that he is really
presenting us with a mix of real
politics and fantasy that um you know i
feel he is stepping into a very
dangerous realm of fictionalization
shall we say of real political problems
it's very important for all of us that
we were mean rigorously honest with
ourselves about our beliefs and our
values not even that we demand of
ourselves that we practice what we
preach but that we recognize whether or
not the things we believe in are even
practicable in this world if they could
be practiced
okay now I've dealt with a lot of
politics in Asia politics in Canada
politics in the Western world a politics
within Buddhism politics in Buddhist
countries politics in communism
extremism you know including you know
mass murder by communist regimes
probably all of us at some point in our
childhood asked ourselves when we
learned about world war two when we
learned about the history of the Nazis
in Germany probably all of us asked
ourselves what would I have done if I
was there at the start of this regime
and shanthi Collins is here really
seriously suggesting that the election
of Donald Trump is one a neo fascist
regime to a white supremacist Muses term
white nationalist and three that nobody
should cooperate with the regime so
presumably this means if you have a job
with the federal government at least if
not the state government so the stig of
him you should now quit your job and I
don't know go to the jungle join the
resistance join the rebellion if he
actually believes if his beliefs are
things that can exist in the real world
if this isn't just fantasy if this isn't
just hyperbole if this isn't just
propaganda if you really believe this is
the start of quote a neo fascist regime
Sean how are you living your life
accordingly if you even think this is
believable how would anyone live their
lives accordingly to me this kind of
thinking is much more dangerous than
mere hyperbole okay um
[Music]
it sails absurd to say I am NOT saying
this even in support of Donald Trump I'm
really not um I'm really saying this to
warn against the tendency to mix fantasy
and fact which is funny because a lot of
over doing here is taking a kind of
politically realistic view of of a
fantasy novel right um Sean I I hope in
your heart of hearts you don't actually
believe that this is true I hope you're
not that out of touch with reality but I
also think you need to think through
rigorously if this is what you believe
if you believe that America is now at
the dawn of a new as he says neo-fascist
white supremacist regime that nobody
should cooperate with how
are you going to live your life
accordingly my values and my beliefs in
this world is very difficult to live
with
I do not own anything made at a leather
this watch has a plastic Westra I don't
own anything made at a leather because
my beliefs and my values entail that
nobody should buy leather that it's that
the you know the industry that
slaughters animals that raises cows and
a cage made out of steel and concrete
only to die and make products out of
their bodies
I think that's immoral and I have to
live my life accordingly and some people
especially they're unfamiliar with
veganism they never thought about some
people think that's impossible
some people think whoa how can you live
your whole life without using anything
made to leather they're using anything
made out of wool sheep's wool you know
is it possible to have a diet where you
don't eat any meat I deal with it all
the time in Buddhism all the time I
dealt with these kinds of questions
where people believed impossible things
people subscribe to a fundamentally
supernatural cosmology about what the
world is and what's going on in the
world and you really have to target and
say look if you believe in the literal
truth of this scripture ancient Buddhist
scriptures what we're talking about here
how can you live your life accordingly
when you meet Christians who actually
believe the world is gonna end very soon
who believed that the prophecy in the
book of Revelation is coming right up in
just a couple of years and there are
some famous Christian groups that do
believe this how are you going to live
your life accordingly I remember I heard
interview with a man his parents didn't
let him go to university because they
thought the world was gonna end too soon
for that who's got four years to waste
going to a university program if the
world's gonna end just just get ready
there are people who who live with these
kinds of impossible beliefs in this
world but I gotta tell you Sean I have
read so many accounts of people either
the people who were communist
revolutionaries or the people who were
escaping communist regimes when
communist regimes were killing up
mascara were carrying out mass murder
against people were they had to wake up
one day and recognize that they were
living in a despotic regime in an
extremely despised situation and they
had to sell their bicycle and put on
their backpack
and go walk to the mountains or walk to
the jungle and join the resistance join
the Maki or what have you
I remember the accounts I read of one
guy who who lived in Nazi Germany and he
was opposed to the Nazi regime and for a
while he opposed them so to speak at his
desk and then at one point he realized
he had to he had to flee he had to run
away and join the resistance joined the
rebellion and it was the the realest
thing in the world he just commented he
said you don't know how precious those
bourgeois habits are to you the rhythm
of daily life until you have to give
them all up whether it's the little
coffee machine he had in his apartment
or just being able to take a shower
every day the comforts you have in your
apartment
giving those up forever to go join the
revolution go join the resistance and
probably sleep in a tent and not have a
proper toilet and not have a proper
shower and not have your coffee machine
anymore most they sound like small
things but those are hard decisions
people to make in all of us I think
again as children we had to ask
ourselves when we first learned the
reality of the history of World War two
even if we just learned a very
simplified version as its presented to
children we had to ask ourselves if I
had been there at that time would I have
had the courage to do what was right
would I have had the intellectual acumen
to realize what was going on and to
stand up and do the right thing
or would I have been a coward would I
have been a conformist would I have just
been ignorant would I have just ignored
the warning signs what was going on in
front of my my eyes again I remember
another account from World War two of a
guy who who who was in Nazi Germany and
he didn't he didn't put the pieces
together when the Holocaust was starting
but he said he reflected on sadly he
said he remembered he was in a public
park a normal public was in Berlin and
there was a park bench with a sign on it
no Jews the Jews were not allowed to sit
on that bench in the park and he said I
should have known he said even if that
was the only thing he saw he said I
should have looked into it I should have
asked questions I should have figured it
out just because I saw that park bench
you know he was he was writing ups he
felt he was if he had been smarter if he
had been more curious if you had been
more rigged
ress he could have figured out what was
going on at that time just the basis of
the park bench now obviously this guy I
mean anyway so the particular guy was a
bit of a bit of a fruitcake I mean you
know you you look back at what was going
on at the time you think how could you
not have known well some people didn't
know I mean still today some people are
spending all their time playing video
games and they're not paying attention
to political reality not everyone is as
interested in politics as I am
I appreciate that some people it's not
that some people are trying to find the
cure for cancer it's not that they're
playing video games they're in a lab
they're just studying you know
biochemistry some people are like that
so they don't know what's going right
there's a whole spectrum there are many
many reasons why people lose touch with
what's going on political reality and to
some extent I can sympathize but Sean
this is this is really a situation where
I think you're veering into peddling not
just propaganda
but a really dangerous mix of effect and
fantasy here if you believe as you say
that this is the start of a neo fascist
regime how would you live your life
accordingly how could this belief exist
in the real world for other people what
are you actually calling for when you
say that nobody should cooperate with
this regime that nobody should cooperate
with the federal government do you think
that someone employed by the Parks
Commission should quit their job or by
the someone employed by the mayor's
office what is it you're actually saying
here because I think that one of the
fundamental virtues you must have in
democracy is not to dehumanize your
opponents is not to dehumanize the
people who you just happened disagree
with I think the ugly truth is Sean that
you haven't faced up to yet is that
Donald Trump is not a fascist is not a
neo-fascist he's just somebody you
happen to disagree with and you know
what millions and millions of your
fellow Americans who surround you every
day and who sell you hotdogs out of
their hotdog stand and who sit next to
you on the bus or the people around you
I mean a huge number of people did vote
for Donald Trump don't demonize them
don't dehumanize them don't call them
white supremacist or neo-fascist
obviously some some smoke
percentage of them are but you know Thea
this is this is mainstream American
politics jockey boat I think you know
you owe it to them if you're gonna
dispute with them to recognize they're
not fascists they're just people you
happen to disagree with and maybe that
is a much more humbling position for you
to have to adopt given that you just
lost the election then this somewhat
grandiose fantasy that you're facing off
against the rise of another Adolf Hitler
but Sean I think you need to work on
separating your fantasy life from your
reality life and maybe maybe you need to
separate politics from podcasting as for
my part my podcast is going to remain a
hundred and ten percent political
[Music]